*autolink.txt*   quickly search for and insert link targets

{autolink.vim} helps create and fill out reference-style links in Markdown and
reStructuredText documents. It uses the Blekko search engine API to find
plausible URLs without the hassle of opening a Web browser.

This plugin provides three functions that are mapped to key sequences by
default in Markdown and reStructuredText buffers. The functions are
|autolink#DefComplete|, |autolink#DefCreate|, and |autolink#Combined|. The
functions are mapped to <Leader>ac, <Leader>am, and <Leader>al, respectively,
for the markdown and rst filetypes.

==============================================================================
Definition Completion (Searching)                       *autolink#DefComplete*

The {autolink#DefComplete} function, mapped by default to <Leader>ac, works
when the cursor is on a line containing a link reference: {[foo]: target} in
Markdown or {.. _foo: target} in ReST. It searches using the Blekko search
engine API for a URL matching the link name and inserts a URL.

For example, invoking completion on this line in a Markdown document:

    [Markdown]: need a URL for this

changes the line to this:

    [Markdown]: http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/

==============================================================================
Definition Insertion                                      *autolink#DefCreate*

The {autolink#DefCreate} function searches for a nearby link in ReST or
Markdown text and inserts a definition for that link below the current
paragraph. For example, invoking the function after typing this paragraph:

    I prefer the [vim text editor][vim].

results in adding a line defining the {vim} reference:

    I prefer the [vim text editor][vim].

    [vim]: 

The cursor is placed at the end of the new line. In Markdown, this works both
for explicit link keys like {[foo][bar]} and implicit ones like {[foo][]}. In
ReST, this works for links like {`foo`_}.

The function searches for the nearest link that starts at or before the
current cursor position. This means that it will operate on the link you want
if your cursor is anywhere inside the link or just after it (e.g., after
finishing the sentence containing the link), but not if the cursor is to the
left of the link you want.

Link definitions are added after a blank line under the current paragraph. If
the next "paragraph" starts with what looks like an existing link definition,
then the new definition is inserted adjacent to existing ones. Otherwise,
whitespace is added to separate the new definition from the following
paragraph.

==============================================================================
Insert + Complete                                          *autolink#Combined*

The {autolink#Combined} function inserts a definition for a nearby link,
completes it with a URL from a Blekko search, and returns your cursor to its
previous position. This makes it possible to add link definitions without
interrupting your writing flow.

The function sets a mark, calls |AutoLinkDefCreate|, calls
|AutoLinkDefComplete|, and then jumps back to the mark.

 vim:tw=78:ts=8:ft=help:norl:
